Hello. We are going
to discuss the types
of malware. Are you
curious? Let's dive
into the topic.
You may already know
that malware is a
computer program that
does some harm to our
digital assets or to
you. It can infect
your programs or
destroy your data.
Typically, computers
get infected via
social engineering
attacks after
downloading and
opening files
containing malicious
code or after the
user clicks a link
that leads to the
download of such
files. Malicious
software comes in
different types
depending on its
behavioral nature and
the damage it causes
to users or systems.
We will cover several
types of malware
encountered most
frequently by regular
users. You might
already have heard
about viruses. The
terms malware and
virus are often used
interchangeably, but
they have slightly
different meanings.
Malware refers to any
digital program
created with the
intent to harm
digital assets. A
virus is a type of
malware that
replicates itself by
attaching to files
and infecting more
digital assets.
Typically, viruses
spread via emails,
downloads and corrupt
storage devices. A
virus needs a host to
activate it and
transfer to other
computers. The host
could be a user or
system that opens or
executes the file.
For example, the user
could open the
infected downloaded
file, which can
spread further. Most
often, viruses delete
or damage files.
Unlike viruses, worms
do not need a host
for activation. They
spread and activate
themselves as
independent programs
via computer networks
. For example, if a
worm infects one
computer at your
school, other
computers can be
infected simply
because they are on
the same network. A
worm automatically
propagates itself and
typically exploits
vulnerabilities on
computers. It can
spread via
communication
channels such as
emails or messaging
platforms. The harm
of worms varies. They
consume computer
resources, damage
files or install
other malware.
Another type of
malware is a Trojan.
Do you know an
ancient Greek story
about the Trojan
horse? The Greek
soldiers hid in a
large wooden horse
and the opponents,
the Trojans,
suspecting nothing,
harnessed the horse
into the city. During
the night, the
soldiers got out of
the wooden horse and
opened the gates to
the army, waiting
behind the walls.
Thus, as in the
legend, a Trojan is
software pretending
to be a legitimate
application. The user
might download this
application, for
example, a game and
run it. Trojans are
designed to steal
sensitive information
to gain access to the
data or systems.
Often, they install
other malware. Adware
, spyware and
keyloggers monitor
users' computer
activities without
their consent. Adware
usually shows
unwanted
advertisements and
redirects to fake or
unwanted websites.
Adware is more
annoying than harmful
. Spyware can monitor
users' activities,
manipulate system
logs, and access
media devices such as
cameras. Its primary
aim is to steal
sensitive data for
fraud or theft.
Spyware sends the
stolen data to the
attacker. Keyloggers
are a type of spyware
that captures every
keystroke you type.
Their aim is to steal
specific, sensitive
information entered
via typing, usually
for financial fraud
or identity theft.
Spyware is often
delivered by Trojans.
Have you ever heard
of ransomware and
bitcoins? Ransomware
is malware that locks
the computer data or
a set of files. The
attacker demands a
ransom. Typically,
the attacker promises
to give a password to
unlock the files or
system if ransom is
transferred. Often,
the attackers require
bitcoins. A bitcoin
is a digital currency
that can be used to
buy specific goods
online. Bitcoin
transactions are
executed on
specialized servers
instead of bank
systems.
There are other types
of malware as well.
For example, wipers
erase everything from
the file system and
are usually
undetectable because,
in most cases, no
traces remain to
identify them.
Botnets consist of
bots that perform
malicious tasks on
infected computers.
Bots are controlled
from the attacker's
server. Botnets can
steal money or flood
computers with
network traffic,
preventing users from
performing their
activities. Rootkits
allow hackers to take
over the computer
with administrator
rights to hide
malicious activities,
such as spying on
users. Now you know
several types of
malware. Which one
have you paid
attention to? Let us
have some time to
think.
Watch another video
in this series to
learn more. See you
soon! Thank you.